# How would convention delegates be chosen, and how would they be controlled?

### In Georgia
Georgia has a law that determines how the state will select its delegates in the event of an Article V Convention. The Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A.) §28-6-8(b) states that Georgia will appoint seven delegates to the convention: 2 appointed by the Speaker of the House, 2 appointed by the President of the Senate, 2 appointed by the Governor, and 1 chosen by 2/3rds of the previous six delegates.[<sup>1</sup>]

Georgia has also implemented robust enforcement mechanisms to hold delegates accountable to intent of any Article V convention. O.C.G.A §28-6-8(c) says that delegates lack the authority to vote for amendments outside of the convention's mandate, and §28-6-8(f) requires that delegates swear an oath to that effect. Any delegate who violates that oath would be subject to between 1 and 5 years in prison under O.C.G.A. §16-10-1.[<sup>2</sup>]

It is important to note that Georgia's law is only applicable at an Article V convention "at which each state of the United States is to have one equal vote" under O.C.G.A §28-6-8(b). This would be the case unless Congress chooses to pass legislation governing the logistics of a convention, which would supercede any state laws on the subject. If Congress does so, the American Bar Association has determined that Supreme Court and appellate court precedents suggest that the "one person, one vote" standard applied to Congressional redistricting in the case *Westbury v. Sanders* would apply to how delegates are allocated to each state. The ABA suggests that each state should be given as many delegates as they have U.S. Representatives.[<sup>3</sup>] In this case, Georgia, as well as all other states, would need to conform to the applicable federal law.

### Generally
As mentioned, if Congress passes a law governing delegate selection, all states will have to conform to this law, nonwithstanding any state laws that govern the same issue. However, if Congress fails to do so, each state will be able to determine its own delegate selection process, as well as any laws controlling delegates and the legal remedies available to hold delegates accountable to those laws.

[<sup>1</sup>]:https://advance.lexis.com/documentpage/?pdmfid=1000516&crid=2d95c23d-023f-490f-af2e-5d7208d0c82d&config=00JAA1MDBlYzczZi1lYjFlLTQxMTgtYWE3OS02YTgyOGM2NWJlMDYKAFBvZENhdGFsb2feed0oM9qoQOMCSJFX5qkd&pddocfullpath=%2fshared%2fdocument%2fstatutes-legislation%2furn%3acontentItem%3a5WF7-T1G0-004D-81KN-00008-00&pddocid=urn%3acontentItem%3a5WF7-T1G0-004D-81KN-00008-00&pdcontentcomponentid=234186&pdteaserkey=sr1&pditab=allpods&ecomp=k5x8kkk&earg=sr1&prid=28b806db-344d-4ea3-90e6-c2dc3726c37f#
[<sup>2</sup>]:https://advance.lexis.com/api/document/collection/statutes-legislation/id/5WF7-T0X0-004D-855W-00008-00?cite=O.C.G.A.%20%C2%A7%2016-10-1&context=1000516
[<sup>3</sup>]:https://wolf-pac.com/wp-content/themes/wolf-pac/img/resources/pdf_ABA_Full_Report.pdf
